JUDY WOODRUFF: Reince Priebus
is out as White House chief of
staff tonight, after just six
months on the job.
President Trump announced in
a tweet late today that John
Kelly, the secretary of homeland
security, will take his place.
The president had more to say
after returning from a day trip
to New York, a trip that Priebus
was on.
DONALD TRUMP, President
of the United States:
Reince is a good man.
John Kelly will do
a fantastic job.
General Kelly has been a star,
done an incredible job thus far,
respected by everybody, a great,
great American.
Reince Priebus, a good man.
Thank you very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And to help
unpack what led to this change
at the top, I'm joined now
by Robert Costa, reporter
for The Washington
Post and moderator of
"Washington Week" here
on PBS.
Welcome, Robert.
And as I go to you, I'm going
to share with everybody just
briefly what the president's
tweets were.
He tweeted -- this was late
this afternoon - - he said: "I
am pleased to inform you that
I just named General
Secretary John F. Kelly as
White House chief of staff.
He's a great American
and great leader.
He said: "John has also
done a spectacular job
at Homeland Security.
He's been a true star
of my administration."
And finally, he said: "I would
like to thank Reince Priebus
for his service and dedication
to this country.
We accomplished a lot together
and I'm proud of him!"
But I guess it didn't work out.
ROBERT COSTA: It was a sudden
change, Judy, but it was also
a change that was in the works
for months.
The president brought on Reince
Priebus because he saw him as
a whisperer to House speaker,
Paul Ryan, a close friend of
Priebus from Wisconsin and
he thought Priebus could help
get his legislative
agenda through.
But as that agenda stalled on
health care and other fronts,
he began to muse in recent
months with friends about
perhaps making a change at
the top of the White House.
Kelly has been at the forefront
of his mind because he's
not a dramatic future and he
has executed for the president
on immigration policy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There have
been so many ups and downs,
as you know very well, because
you have been covering it every
day, for this White House.
How did the president
see Reince Priebus as
connected to that or not?
Did he blame him for
what's been going on?
ROBERT COSTA: He thought
Priebus, because he had run the
Republican National Committee,
could be a stabilizing force.
But Priebus as RNC chairman
was always a low-key presence.
He wasn't who was known for
managing a large organization
in a military-style fashion.
The president wanted that
kind of person to come in.
And it's important to note
that Kelly has a strong
relationship with Jared Kushner,
the senior adviser, and
actually Steve Bannon,
the chief strategist.
And they represent the two poles
in this warring White House.
So there is an expectation now
from my sources that Kelly can
come in and try to be a calming
force.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mentioned
the two poles, but we also
had the announcement the other
day from the president he is
bringing in a new communications
director, Anthony Scaramucci,
who has been in a
very visible war.
And the language that he used
in that conversation with a "New
Yorker" magazine reporter was
making all kind of news
headlines yesterday.
How does that fit into all this?
ROBERT COSTA: No, it's a smart
observation, because it does
seem incongruent to have this
swashbuckling New Yorker in
Anthony Scaramucci now working
alongside General Kelly, who is
known for being a
very precise man.
But it really reflects how the
president is trying to turn to
his loyalists from New York,
as well as to military figures
as he tries to right the ship.
He knows his health care
legislation is going nowhere
right now on Capitol Hill.
He's trying to recover
his presidency, turning
to two different types,
the New Yorkers and
the military.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, does this
look to you, Robert, like
this is a team that can work
smoothly together, that can get
this White House back on some
semblance of a normal track?
ROBERT COSTA: Well, General
Kelly has said publicly in
the past that he would like to
maybe try to monitor the
president's calls, that
he thinks there could
be more organization
inside of the West Wing.
It's going to be interesting
to see if he can really try
to contain the Oval Office.
This is an Oval Office
that's known for having
a lot of entryway, people
coming in and offering
their advice, often
unsolicited, to the president.
If Kelly can get ahold of that
in a way Priebus never did,
maybe he can turn it around.
But he also has to navigate
all the different circles
around President Trump.
He is someone who is known
not just for having a
straight chain of command.
He talks to a lot of
people all the time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking
of which, what one hears is
that this is a president who
really likes to be his
own chief of staff.
ROBERT COSTA: Indeed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He likes
-- he's a detail person.
He wants to know what everybody
is doing, how they're doing it.
How is likely to fit with
somebody like General Kelly?
ROBERT COSTA: General Kelly
doesn't have a deep personal
relationship with President
Trump.
Will he stop the
president from tweeting?
That's what all my
sources want to know.
Can he actually stop
the president from, as
you say, being his own
chief of staff, being
his own spokesman?
For now, it seems like
Scaramucci and others
are channeling the
president in their public
presentation, not
trying to hold him back.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The other thing,
Robert, I have to raise are
the so-called -- what the
White House and the president
like to call the leaks which
they say are coming from a
lot of people in the White
House and the administration
that shouldn't be, but
then the stories one
also hears that not only is
the president talking to the
press, but people at the highest
levels in the White House.
How is all that likely to change
or not as a result of this?
ROBERT COSTA: It's a very
messy situation, because the
president is furious behind the
scenes.
He's telling his aides that
they need to stop the leaks,
but often these leaks are coming
from some of his own
White House officials.
And there's a big difference
between intelligence
community leaks and leaks
about palace intrigue
inside of the West Wing.
But a lot of the president's
aides are just trying to reflect
his own unhappiness about
a White House he thinks
that is talking too much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it is --
as you and I were just saying,
it's one more tumultuous
day in what's been
nonstop tumult.
ROBERT COSTA: And everyone was
thinking maybe Attorney General
Sessions would be the person
to go at the end of this week,
after all of his struggles
with President Trump, but it
was Priebus.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we don't
know what is going to happen
to the attorney general at this
point.
ROBERT COSTA: We do not.
Robert Costa, thanks.
And you're going to have much
more on "Washington Week"
on all these PBS stations.
Thank you.
ROBERT COSTA: Thank you.